# MCVillagerTrades
A program that easily lets you create Minecraft data-packs with villagers with custom trades.

This program will take a configuration file that specifies Minecraft items that you want villagers to trade, and create villager specifications for specific villagers, specifying their name, profession, a custom head, and other attributes, along with the items they will take and the items they will give in trade. This program is designed for Minecraft Java 1.13 and has not been tested with other versions of Minecraft.

The configuation file has a '[main]' section that specifies overall program settings. These include the name of the output file, the type of output (a data-pack .zip file, or a plain text file of commands), and where the villagers should be spawned relative to where the command is run.  Following the main section is an '[items]' section, which specifies short names for the itesm the villagers will take and give in trades. Finally, there are one or more '[villager]' sections.  Each specifies one villager to be spawned. You can specify the name, the custom player head for them to wear and what profession the should be (clothes color). Following the there is a list of trades after a line consisting of "trades:". The trades are specified as '&lt;item1&gt; [amount] [, &lt;item2&gt; [amount]]=&lt;result item&gt; [amount]', where the item names are defined in the item section, and the amounts and second item are optional. (ammounts are assumed to be 1 if not specified, and if then second item is not specified, than one one item is needed to be traded for the result item instead of two items).

# Running
The program is a Java program packages as a runnable .jar file. If you can run Minecraft Java, you should be able to just double click on the MCVillagerTrades.jar file to run the program, although it is recommened to run the program from a command line, as there is text output if errors are found in the configuration file. The program will open a dialog for you to choose the configuration file to make villagers from. A few examples are provided, or you can create your own.  The program will then create an output in the same directory (only if the filename specified in the configuration doesn't already exist), with the commands to create the villagers specified.

# Using the Output
If the configuration file specified text output, a text file with the pack name specified in the configuration file will be generated. This file will contain one command per villager specified. You can go into a Minecraft world with creative mode / server ops, and put these commands into a command block, one at a time, and power the command block to create the villagers with the specified trades. This method has a limitation that command blocks cannot run commands longer than 32,500 characters. Standard trades shouldn't have an issue, but if you have complex items specifed for trade, such as player heads with custom textures or spawners with complex mob specifications, that limit can be reached quickly. If this becomes an issue, you can spread the trades over several villagers, or use data-pack output which does not seem to have a command lenth limit.

If the configuration file specified data-pack output, a data-pack .zip file will be created. You can copy/move that data-pack into the save directory of a minecraft world, into the datapacks subdirectory of that world. Once there, you can go into the world (even if it is already running), and with creative mode / server ops, first run the command '/reload' to have the game refresh the datapacks in memory, and then run the command '/execute run function villagertrades:<pack name>/spawn' where '&lt;pack name&gt;' is the pack name as specified in the configuration file. (The fuction name should auto-complete as you type it if you press the tab key). Running this command will spawn all the villagers specified in the configuration file at once.

# Example configuration files
Currently there example configuration files come with the program.
The first is a simple 'TestVillagerData.txt' configuration file that creates a single villager with two trades, one that trades a dirt and stone block for a 'magic diamond' and one that trades two of those 'magic diamond's for a custome player head.

The second configuration file 'RareItemTradesData.txt' specifies four villagers, each with several trades. The first will convert coral fand and bushes into coral blocks, and convert dead coral to live coral, and vice versa. The second will let you convert two of certain slabs into the curently uncraftable 'smooth' version of that block, as will as let you get the uncraftable 'petrified oak slab'. The third villager will let you easilt get some hard to get items such as cobwebs, deadbushes and ferns.  The fourth villager will let you easily get potion tipped arrows by trading a stack of arrows and a potion.

The third example configuration file, 'MiniblockVillagersData.txt' has a set of 39 villagers that trade for custom textured player heads. You trade many items with the first villager to eventually get a stack of 'blank' miniblocks (custom textured player head). Once you have a miniblock, you can trade one and a diamond block for another stack of miniblocks with the first villager, or trade one miniblock with any of the other villagers for different custom textured player heads. Each villager has a certain theme of custom textures, such as food, drinks, interior decor items, miniature versions of blocks, colors, video game characters, popular player heads, etc.
